Thank you very much.
Jaye Srimataji, may Mother forgive me for any mistakes I do while talking about her.
I have talked a few times before and been very disappointed when I listen to the recordings that...
I don't know, it's so difficult for me to do justice to anything Srimataji said or did.
She was ever so loving, so forgiving, so...
It is impossible to describe for me, I don't have the words really.
And it is not easy. At least that's how I feel.
But we know that Srimataji asked us to record those memories we have of her...
because that's one way we have of recording the human side of our life.
It is something that Mother is not going to do for herself. It's our job to do, it's our duty.
As you know, I'm sure you heard Srimataji said, we have a duty to record those things...
because she did so much for us.
Being shy, not coming forward is not an option, it's actually a duty.
And when Srimataji was listening to those books of Linda...
you know, the Eternal Recollections of Srimataji, what's the title?
Eternally Inspiring Recollections of Her Holiness Srimataji Nirmala did it.
This is the title of those books that Linda Williams was... she was the editor.
And these books were being read to Srimataji by her family, by the Yogis...
they were very close to Mother. Mother was listening to those books, you know, a lot.
She liked them a lot, you know. And occasionally she said, oh, how about Mr. So-and-so and Mr. So-and-so?
And they came forward with some of their memories as well.
And another thing she said was, what about the things I said about William Blake to people?
You know, I spoke so much about William Blake to people.
Where are those stories? I don't see them, you know, they're not there, you know.
Make sure you collect those stories, the things I said about William Blake.
So then Linda sent those requests for people, you know, all those people, Mother,
talked to them about William Blake, please come forward to and share those stories.
I did that, I shared some of those stories I could remember.
At least I could still remember some of them, but there was some... I had difficulty writing them down.
They were difficult to put in writing, maybe. I'll try to record those.
I've been trying to put those on record as well since they missed the recollection books that Linda was preparing.
So I'll start with a very small little story, you know, that small recollection that happened there at Mother's house at Shudhi camps.
Sahaja Yogi came and said, look, I took all these photos of the last puja.
It's the first time I'm taking photos of Mother at the puja.
So can you leave this packet of photographs and show it to Mother?
I had a quick look at the photos. I'm sorry, I'm not sure.
This could be a lot of work for Mother to go through so many photos.
And are you really sure? Because, you know, I thought they were not that special after all.
But then she says, all right, I'll put them on Mother's table. Let's see, Mother will decide.
You know, there was another yogi also came and they had a poster, like a poster or a leaflet of the paintings they had made.
And his idea was, you know, let Mother choose one or two, maybe all.
If Mother wants any painting she can have, you know, I'll bring it to her, you know.
So just let Mother see them, you know. I also felt, I'm really sure, you know, because these paintings are a bit abstract.
I don't know, you know. No, no, see, just let Mother see it, you know.
All right, I'll put it on the table. Then Mother will decide.
And in those days we used to sit, sometimes Mother say come and see us, you know, come and see us at 9am or 10am, whatever time.
And we used to arrive there and sit on the floor by the door of our apartment in the sitting room.
We were sitting on the floor in tremendous meditations.
It was wonderful if we could arrive a few minutes before the time Shri Mataji told us to arrive.
And this was quite a wonderful thing. But that day Shri Mataji had told us the previous day,
if you want to sit on the table, you know, the main table and those nice chairs, you know.
At the table?
At the table, I meant at the table, not on the table. This is my English, my bad English, you know.
And so we sat at the table, you know, waiting for Mother. Mother came and she sat at the table with us.
And so she saw those papers, the photographs were there, that poster, or let's say it's a kind of gallery advert for the gallery with the paintings the yogi had painted.
They were there too. And Shri Mataji asked immediately also, what have you got there?
So, oh, these are photos, Mr. So-and-so, you know, these photos. It's the first time he's taking photos of Mother, you know.
He's not an expert and also special, you know. Mother had a look, you know.
In fact, even before Mother arrived, we had already looked at those photos, all of us that were waiting for Mother.
And at the poster. And our little opinion, because we have very limited understanding,
we felt these photos are nothing special because this as yoga is very far away at the back, you know.
So Mother looked so, so tiny, very tiny. All you could see was hundreds of thousands of people. It was a puja.
So, you know, it was not a good location to take nice photos, you know.
But then at the end of the whole thing, he had three photos of Mother, only three. It was the first time he was doing it.
So we were not expecting Mother to, you know, say much about that. So Mother looked at the photos very, very fast.
And then when it arrived, the three photos he had achieved in big size of Mother, because he moved to the front maybe.
And Mother tore the pictures down, you know. She broke the pictures into four and that's it, you know.
And we were laughing, you know. We found that so unexpected that Mother would do a thing like this that it made us laugh, you know.
So Mother knew what we were laughing because we felt, okay, now that poster with the paintings, you know, it's probably the same result.
But Mother knew that we were laughing and all of us, Mother was laughing too.
And then she said, you know, you can tell him the reason why I destroyed the three pictures is because I don't want him to meditate with pictures that are not right, you know.
They're not quite balanced. They're not, you know, it's best for him to meditate with better photos.
So on this occasion, I removed those three pictures from him so he does not meditate on those.
But otherwise, you know, let him try, you know, it will get better gradually, you know.
So, and she also said the reason I, you know, cut those pictures is because it's not me.
I'm not actually there on those pictures, you know, because the vibrations are not okay.
So what to expect now? We were kind of expecting now what is Mother going to do with those paintings,
photos of the paintings that are abstract paintings that don't look that special to us.
But to our surprise, Mother said, oh, yes, yes, I know who painted this. I know him. That's his style, you know.
And he always paints me, in fact, really. But these are abstract things.
Yes, yes, this is me. Can't you see this is me? No, we could not see.
But Mother, this is me and this, oh look, this is me as well, Mother said. This is an abstract painting.
So is this one. Oh, this is my vibrations, you know. Mother knew everything about those paintings, you know, although they're abstract.
So it really showed us how very limited our understanding of art or understanding of vibrations.
We really don't have any understanding of anything really, even on vibrations.
We are such beginners, really, that none of us could get this right.
And then in fact, she said, tell your wife to come here. I have some instructions for her. So Carol came.
And Mother said, go and purchase those, the two paintings from this Sasagiogi.
In secret, you must know it's me buying them, because if you think it's for me, we'll bring them for free straight away.
And I believe it's very important to, she said, important to sponsor the artist, to help them, to encourage them to do anything we can.
And they will get better gradually. But this is a person who is a good painter, really.
And he always paints me, although it's abstract. But Mother understood everything, of course. Mother knows everything.
But even with vibrations, we didn't use vibrations and how wrong we got it. But it was a learning process for us.
But we laughed. Actually, we laughed because it was unexpected to see Mother telling those photos until Mother explained the reason.
Then we understood.
I'll move to another memory this time, which is very puzzling also to me, because meeting Mother will never know what's going to happen.
On this occasion, Mother sent a message, those who are free, anyone can come and help. We will shift some furniture.
Mother was moving place. Mother was staying in a very prestigious place because this was Buckingham Palace Road.
So it's a special place for diplomats.
And Mother had, there was an address there. Mother was a sociopy, had that address for business purposes.
Mother had lots of furniture of hers there. And now she was removing that furniture somehow because she was going to India.
And we went there for that purpose. But not many people came, in fact, to help with that furniture removal.
There was only me and another yogi for that purpose. And I'm not that strong. That size yogi is not that big, really.
So between the two of us, this would have been a bit hard because there was one certain piece of furniture so big, so big, so big. It's unbelievable.
The size of that piece of furniture. Of course, it was much taller than the door. That would never go through the door.
I'm not a very sensible person to tell you that. In fact, I remember discussing that with the other yogi.
And they said, yes, I know, because I helped assembling this piece of furniture.
You see, we may have to spend a long time disassembling if we want to get this out of the house, you know.
And he was busy doing many of the things. Mother was giving him instructions, you know.
And I don't know what happened to my mind. Suddenly looking at the furniture, that piece of furniture, suddenly to my eyes, it looked smaller suddenly.
And I got the feeling this might actually go through the door, which is impossible because I know I had seen the piece of furniture.
There is no way that piece of furniture can go through the door. It had been assembled inside the house so big it was.
But when I looked at it, it looked quite small suddenly. And so I felt a certain courage.
And I'm going to drag this to the door and see if it goes through. You never know.
And the furniture moved as if it has no weight, as if it's on wheels. I said, this is lucky. This furniture, so big, but it's on wheels, so easy.
It just moved, moved, moved, went through the door outside of the flat. I couldn't believe my eyes.
A minute ago that was so big and then became small. It went through the door.
And then it was so big it's filling up the whole landing place there, what do you call that?
The corridor. The corridor. So the people living in those flats could not go upstairs or downstairs.
It's all blocked. It's quite a problem to leave that big piece of furniture there. There was no space for anyone to circulate to go up or down.
And suddenly a man comes up the stairs. He looked really strong, you know, and with a big mustache, that type of mustache that is out of fashion nowadays.
So I thought, maybe it's from a different country. It must be the place for diplomats. Such a strong woman.
And with such a massive mustache, it reminds me of those characters you see in these books of, you know, these Amarshitra kathas, stories of India.
They show that type of person sometimes with big mustaches.
And from a little gap between the wall and the furniture, as if it's made of rubber or elastic, it passed through.
And I said, oh, I'm so sorry I'm blocking the way, you know, I don't know what to do. This is so big.
I don't know if this can go down the stairs even because it's almost too big now to go down the stairs.
And he tells me, don't worry about that, brother. There's no problem. It will go down. Don't worry, you know.
So he went upstairs. He squeezed from a gap that is impossible for even person to go through it.
Then comes another man just like him. So I said, oh my God, this must be his brother or twin even. It was just like him.
And he did the same. He squeezed from that gap like he's a circus contortionist or God knows what. No problem, brother. Just leave it to us. It's okay.
I said, this is really strange, but never mind. It's strange things whenever we do something for mother or with mother.
You say, we're only recording the human side of mother's life. But even though what is just the human side of mother's life is quite miraculous.
It's very divine, really. Even the human side is a big surprise sometimes. A third man appeared just like the other two.
I even told myself, could it be these triplets or what? They look the same. Big, massive moustache, very strong man.
And he managed to squeeze from that hole as if it's made of rubber or God knows what, you know, elastic man.
And then I felt this is really strange. You know what? This is just what I need.
I'm going to ask them, would you be able to give me a hand to bring this stuff down, this big one?
They said, of course, brother, leave it to us. We'll do it. You go home and take a break.
We need to speak to our mother first upstairs. And then when we're ready, maybe 15, 20 minutes, we'll come down.
We'll take this for you. No nothing to worry. We'll knock on your door and we'll help you take that down. Just don't worry.
Don't worry. Just go and relax. So I did that. You know, I went inside, ate a sandwich, took a cup of tea, you know, in mother's flat, you know.
Mother was there, but she was busy giving instructions to other people. Different things needed organizing, needed organizing, you know.
And suddenly the yogi was there with me to do the furniture. He said, what on earth did you do to the piece of furniture?
Where is it gone? You know, you can't take this out. It's impossible. Where did that go?
Well, I don't know. It went through the door, but you can push that. It's too heavy. Well, luckily it was on wheels.
So it went very nicely. Excuse me. There are no wheels on that furniture. I assembled that too. There's no wheels whatsoever, but it just moved, you know.
Yes. And where did it put you? What is it? I need to see this. So we opened the door and the furniture was gone.
I said, oh my God, they stole it. Yes. You see, this is terrible. Let's, let's catch them. So we run down the stairs to catch them.
They were gone, completely gone. And the furniture is gone too. And then we looked inside the van. Oh, they put it inside the van and they went away.
He said, this only happens when we are doing things for mother. You know, it's many years after that, thinking about this small incident.
I think maybe the Organa, as God knows, you know, lots of strange things can happen with mother. So yes, we are trying to record a little bit the human side of mother, and it's not easy even to record those things and to do justice to mother.
Extremely difficult. I don't know. It's everything with mother. There's always some surprise or something that we laugh a lot in the end, enjoy a lot and learn a lot with mother because mother will always share, you know, very generously at the time.
She shares a knowledge and teaches us so much and helps us with every detail. And she does to each, there's that to each and everyone. It's quite the story. There's no chance of ever doing justice to mother by sharing memories, at least not for me.
But we do our best, you know, and try and record as many as you can remember.
There was a certain incident that I can never forget because this was mother was organizing the opposition to pack them to take them to India by boat, you know, in a big container.
And mother suddenly was dealing with studies, you know, and she had several, several piles of studies, you know, she only she knew what she was doing.
We were bringing them the, the bags of the suitcases and bags of clothes and saris and mother said, Okay, this one this way. The other side to this pile the other one for that pile.
And then some of her shoes are repeating some shoes go to this box and others go to another box of us to that cardboard box you know she knew what she was doing it was very interesting to see mother in action, no confusion for mother.
And then suddenly came a big box you know we didn't know what was on that box and I said oh no no no no it's just not put it to the side you know.
That's too much that's too much you know.
So we put that box a little bit not so close to mother. That was too strong.
In fact, it was too cold. This is so cold you know just not so close to me.
But then another yogi came later so what about this big box mother what to do this morning or what you want. Okay, to open it.
And we opened the box it was full of mother's shoes.
And it was like the Malayas were dead in that room you know, we felt so cool so cool so cool.
In the middle of this confusion, we all went silent. We sat down, and we went into meditation and closed our eyes. This was quite rare.
And what they even said look at the silence look at this vibrations this was just a box of shoes of Shri Mataji.
But my goodness these were old perhaps old shoes shoes that mother no longer wears you know from the past but they were there in that box and it was unbelievable vibrations.
It put us in meditation we actually sat down the silence silence was so strong and we went into meditation and mother let us stay in that meditation for a while.
So this was not expected, we were trying to help mother sort out some of the some of the material things you know this is a bit mundane people might say but suddenly we're in meditation.
And that experience is so deep of the vibrations that came from a box of mother's shoes that still today I cannot forget this event of what the deep experience of vibrations.
What the deep experience of meditation as well. And what the variety when you are doing things with mother or have a chance to see mother.
So, it was also a lady there helping, you know, and this was a lady who she was not doing so well in life you know she has that she had the problem.
And the problem was that she had good qualifications or she was studying university things you know, and she could get good jobs but she could not keep the job, because the boss would usually would would would suck her in less than five days or a week, gone,
she'd lose the job. So she thought she had a curse what to do.
So mother said if you want to come come and stay with me in my house and we'll see how we can work on that. This is typical of mother, the extent to which mother goes to help people.
This lady, you know, has a difficulty keeping a job and mother said come and live with me. We'll work on that problem you know. So, we had also brought you know, a whole van full of furniture of mother, a few days before, to the camps you know, and this lady was in charge,
this lady that could not keep the job. And so mother asked, can you find me this, can you find me that, did you bring this, bring that? Oh, no, no mother that doesn't come, you know, so what what came, obviously this is here, this is that, this came, you know.
And I said, but this is the exact opposite of what I told you to bring remember.
I told you actually, you know what to bring, what not to bring and this is what you do, you know, it's everything wrong, you know, what, what the same because now these boys have to take all the stuff back in the van again and then bring another van with more stuff here, what, what the program you know so this girl was feeling a bit.
She was kind of disappearing to the ground she was feeling ashamed of doing this type of mistakes, you know.
So I don't know, I felt inspired to say something in her defense and I said, because she was not, she was just disappearing to the ground, she was feeling very, very shy, very ashamed so I said, mother you know the van was so full, there was nothing else we could have put on that van, you know.
And besides we don't mind going back there and getting more stuff and getting the right stuff you know.
And I said, yes, I'm glad you said something in our defense that's wonderful I really like that you know. But, Louis you should know all the facts as well. Look at this.
She can't keep a job, you know, and the reason she can't keep a job is because she always does the opposite of whatever the instructions are, if the boss tells her to do something, she always does the opposite or does something else you know, she thinks that discretion
is so developed already. But in fact, it's because she doesn't obey the instructions I told her that many times I'm trying to work on with this on on this point to help her.
And on this occasion I gave her two lists in writing you know, where the list is the things to bring, and the other list is the things of not to bring. And as you can see that she did the absolute opposite so we still have more work to do until she's ready to go to work you know, so I'm working on her I'm trying to help her.
So don't imagine that if I'm telling someone off is lack of love in fact this is because I lost someone that I give a tell off sometimes little tell off you know, but she was feeling she was not able to take this criticism easily in fact.
And it looks like oh my goodness and I'm telling now she's gonna cry or something you know.
So a little bit worried about looking at each other let's see what happens here.
And another Sahaja Yogi comes and brings another pair of shoes to mother, mother what pile shall we put this one in? Mother said, Oh no no that those shoes are special these are different you know.
Actually these are not my shoes you know so they cannot go on any of those piles.
These shoes are from Kalpana, and she left them behind.
And the Sahaja Yogi said, Oh yeah but they are very new they are brand new they look brand new Yes yes yes they are brand new but you know Kalpana left them behind.
So sometimes she leaves a few things behind for me to give to other people in case someone needs you know, she left those for someone you know, but it's not easy to find someone for these shoes you know mother was holding all these shoes in a lap.
Like something very special very precious.
She said, Look at the shoes I mean they're so ladylike so decent. So, mother has such words, she said so discreet so modest.
So modest, so beautiful so discreet, and so dignified and sophisticated. So, you know, I'm trying to find someone I can give the shoes to, but also Kalpana wears size number six and this is quite hard.
You know, find sometimes a lady with that tall that were size six you know.
So, and then mother looks at their feet this lady, mother has given a little tell off you know.
She says, Wait, your feet are exactly like my daughter's feet, you know, she must be wearing a size six don't you? She said yes mother I do wear a size six. That's it, they are for you.
Now she was laughing now she was smiling. So, mother avoided these, no tears after all, everything ended up beautiful.
So there was no problem, there was never any problem mother, had such way to show her love with such intensity that we could all feel it so mother prevented.
You know, the situation to go a little you know, in case she cried or something. It ended up beautifully she was smiling she was very happy.
Only mother can do this thing so beautifully.
There was a time
I got the message that mother said come to come and see me, you know, there's something you know, but the person who gave the message
didn't give the full message, he just told me to go and see mother, you know, and it's a bit strange because it was,
it was Good Friday, and Good Friday is actually the day when Christ was crucified so it's never a happy day you know.
It seemed a bit strange to be told to go there.
And but you know wonderful to sing to be invited you know. So I went there.
And being Good Friday mother was not quite the usual style, not so not so happy of course not so it was more formal.
It was a bit meditative mood, you know, not quite the same and mother was going in and out of meditation she was on honesty, and sometimes I didn't know if mother was asleep in fact or awake or in meditation.
And she started talking about Christ. This was Good Friday so I thought this is normal you know.
And she spoke and spoke and spoke and spoke and then she stopped and meditated or slept or rested I don't know.
And this went on for a long time and she said so much so much so much about Christ. And then once or twice she told me,
How can you sit there with your arms crossed doing nothing about it when Christ is being insulted you know, and then gradually understood what was going on.
There was a film that had been released recently, and this was Easter is coming now and the film was going to be on, was on in fact.
It was a film I think it was called The Last Temptation of Christ.
It was a very stupid film.
According to mother it was a horrible film.
It had no respect for Christ.
And there was a certain insinuation that Christ had a romantic romantic affair with Mary Magdalene, can you imagine, or renders you know mother so offended to hear this insult about Christ, she couldn't, she couldn't tolerate it.
And she kept you know, and then she asked me now, really, do you sit there doing nothing about this when this is happening you call yourself.
Call yourself a Christian you, you think you love Christ very much and then what you do you know, these things happen in the country no one does anything about it, you know.
And then she told me, can you read the last two paragraphs, please.
That's why I realized, oh my god, I should have been writing this down isn't it Yes. Didn't they give you that message No mother they never told me. I was coming for this purpose to write down your talk you know, because usually record you don't you don't try to
write it isn't it.
Yes, but this is a letter for a newspaper you know about this film.
So, nevermind, don't worry it's not important you know it's not important at all, you know.
In fact, mother said you know what, go and forget the piece of paper and write everything down, it's very easy to just stand meditation write it all down.
Five minutes before this happened, another, another person had entered the room was a very advanced as Yogi very well educated you know his English is perfect his knowledge of Sahaja is amazing.
And they heard the last five minutes at least so he said all right don't worry Lewis you know at least I heard last five minutes. Yes, but mother talked for more than an hour for more than half an hour already.
She was there for an hour but you know in between resting and meditating. She must have talked for half an hour. Don't worry mother said you can do it you know so we got the piece of paper.
As mother said he was trying to stand meditation, he wrote the Yogi wrote last five minutes I wrote the whole lot.
I can't believe everything came down you know as if I could remember each and every word.
This was a tremendous lesson to see. We don't even believe these powers are there you know, and then the other side Yogi look very carefully at the grammar punctuation where to put the stops where to do the paragraphs you know, we did our best you know, it looked
wonderful.
We felt it looks like we managed to remember everything between the two of us you know mother somehow give a tremendous power on that occasion.
And then mother came out came back again because she was again going into meditation server rights.
Don't worry about that is fine you know, because in the evening CCP will promise me is going to look into it and, you know, rewrite if it necessary you know so CCP is available to improve the English if necessary as well so it's fine.
And besides, I think you did a good job don't worry.
And then she said why don't you watch some TV now.
So put the TV on.
And on the TV for some golf, you know, we put it out sound because father was either meditation or asleep you know.
And then she dictated more, and then we wrote a bit more you know, and then the job was done.
And this memory is taking me forever, because of being able to write down what mother said, word for word you know some powers of meditation. We forget exists, I didn't have the type of memory at all.
And later on the story came in very handy because much later there was another film called the Darwin's he could, and the Darwin's he could is.
It's a similar situation where the author is implying there is a kind of romantic relationship between Christ and Mary Magdalene like that film, which mother protests so strongly.
And she wrote the letter for the newspapers, but the letter was sent to the editors of several newspapers in England to influence them. So the editors know that you know what's right what's wrong at least.
They may not publish the letter of Shri Mataji but at least they will read it and they will know that this is wrong.
And now, much later, many years later, there is this Darwin's he could film you know.
And there was a Sahaj Yogi, we have written a lot about Sahaj Yogi and he came to England to investigate this to see is there any factual truth about this let's visit the places, visit the locations, see what, see what is there available you know, but then I told him
look, you know, what mother said about that film was incredible you know, you cannot have even this type of thoughts about Christ and Mary Magdalene is a big, big insult so although it's not easy to go and ask mother's opinion right now because by now
Shri Mataji was, she announced that she had retired a little bit from deciding everything so people cannot go so easily and ask questions you know.
So I said look you know if this has a lot in common with that film that mother wrote, mother wrote such a strong protest you know.
And he said, Oh my goodness, why didn't you tell me why didn't you share that memory, it would have saved me the trip.
If I didn't meet you by accident even.
I might have you know written something wrong on this subject you know. So this is a very important memory.
Yes, it is important however, even on mother's steps mother said exactly the same some years ago, even before that film came about last temptation of Christ or whatever the name is.
Mother had already put on our tapes on our talks that you know if we cannot conceive of a pure relationship between Christ and Mary Magdalene, this is a sign that we have a perverted mind.
We have to understand that Christ is someone of such high standards of Dharma that if he needed to take a wife he would but he would marry not an affair or romantically a zone, nothing like that, only the highest Dharma because this is Christ you know.
So that knowledge came in handy that way and then much later. Another Sahaja Yogi wrote another story, which is an imitation of the Davinci code.
And the way he wrote it, although he was a Sahaja Yogi, he also would not have known this aspect of what mother said, although it's on a tape of mother but you know it's hard to listen to every tape.
And so he wrote a kind of a story about romantic, you know, novel between Christ and Mary Magdalene, you know. So when I read that book I was horrified, oh my goodness.
So there was, we could not go to mother with these things informing mother, by now mother was officially, you know, like semi-retired from deciding everything so there was at least
a Sahaja Committee, what was called a Sahaja Publications Committee with very great Sahaja Yogis in it, you know. So in general I would not have even written any mail about this but because mother gave me such warning, you know, what are you doing, do you cross your arms
and do anything, don't do anything about it, when Christ is insulted I felt all right. I really cannot cross my arms this time, I have to write an email to the that publications committee to request that they don't allow this book to be sold in Sahaja at the Puzhas.
And so it happened, they did that, you know, so there you go, any small memories of mother, they don't seem sometimes essential because even things mother already said they're on the tapes in any case but that experience came in very handily, you know, for me because it was able to help two Sahaja Yogis, you know, to prevent a big mistake and in fact even some people thought maybe this book should go and become a Tev play.
Tev means theatre of eternal values, you know, it was a theatre company for doing plays for Shri Mataji during the Puzhas, you know, and some people felt why not make turn this into a play, you know, for mother, you know.
So really out of one memory of mother something useful came out that there was no question of doing a Tev play about that book. In fact that book was actually prohibited in Sahaja and that Sahaja Yogi also didn't have to waste time investigating about the Da Vinci code in any case.
So this is just to accentuate the importance of each and every little memory that we still remember from mother, they still have great usefulness sometimes.
And it's interesting because much later, you know, Shri Mataji told me why she invited me to write down what she was saying and that was a little test for me to be able to write down what mother said afterwards because mother had told me to write about Sahaja Yoga and I always felt I can't, you know, it's not possible, I cannot do it, my English is not good enough, you know.
Lack of confidence. The mother knew that I wanted to write because I wanted to write even before Sahaja Yoga already. And so this was like a little exercise to boost my confidence that you can write.
On another occasion, she also asked me to write a testimonial about Sahaja Yoga, you know, to say how much I benefited from Sahaja, me and my family, or to also give a testimonial about how other people have benefited so much.
Our mothers helped and saved millions of people. So this is quite the responsibility to write an article like that. And this was for the newspapers in India.
And again, I said to mother, I don't know what to write, mother. And mother dictated the whole article to me. And next day when I wrote it, it all came back to me word for word what mother had said, you know, and certain things mother didn't say fully, but gave me,
told me some hints of how to say it or what to say. And at last I felt confidence. Maybe now I can write about Sahaja Yoga. I was not sure if it was perfect, but mother said don't worry because the Indian Sahaja Yogis are going to translate it to Marathi, you know, so if the English is not perfect, what counts is if you manage to put those points across that I told you, you know, it's all there mother check the vibrations.
That's fine. This was one at last I felt confidence I could write about Sahaja Yoga as mother told me to write. And at the same time, I was I was reading a book, which was written about false gurus.
So I thought, interesting, let's read this book about denouncing the false gurus. This is interesting. As it turns up, this writer, he was denouncing false gurus, no doubt, but he was also writing against God.
He was writing against Christ again, was writing against Moses, against Abraham, against Sri Krishna, against Sri Ganesha, everything, you know, it didn't spare anyone.
This was not a genuine book against false gurus, the man writing it, he himself was a false guru. And then I noticed, oh my God, now he's criticizing mother too.
He said these vibrations of this lady Nirmala Devi, this is not genuine, this is not scientifically proved. So I thought, I underlined those sentences in red, you know, and took the book to mother.
So I asked mother, do you know about this man? You know, this guy is appalling. And I said, do I know about this man? But this is the man, this is the guru, this is the one whose disciples are writing articles against Sahaja Yoga in Maharashtra.
It is also the man whose disciples were throwing the stones at the Sahaja Yogis, you know, so very serious incident this man had caused indirectly.
And then mother told me about him, this man, he says that he already believes in rationality and in science. And then in the facts, nothing to do with, he was against superstition, he said, you know, but really, it was totally anti-God.
And he didn't understand anything. And that's when mother said, look, I told you to write about Sahaja Yoga. And here's a good subject for you to write about, write about William Blake, because William Blake spent his whole life writing against rationality, against intellectuals, against this so-called mundane philosophers who don't have any respect for God.
This is what Blake fought all his life. So since I asked you to write about Sahaja Yoga, this is a good subject for you to write. And by then my confidence at last was a little bit boosted.
So mother helped me a lot in being able to write a little bit about William Blake.
So when people ask me, what is the essence of what mother told you about William Blake, what I've just said, this is, I believe the essence that the most important thing about William Blake is to go beyond the mind, is to go into thoughtless awareness, to go into deeper meditation
and to put aside this temptation of analyzing everything or understanding everything rationally, because we don't, you know, without vibrations, we don't understand anything.
And especially Blake, Blake is about vibrations. It's about going beyond the brain, going to very deep state of meditation.
And it's actually a great prophet of Sahaja Yoga. Mother also explained that to everybody. This has been explained by mother hundreds of times, in fact.
In fact, William Blake also made some paintings of Mary Magdalene. And if you look at them, there's one, in the olden days, people used to think that certain ladies day in the Bible, it's always Mary Magdalene.
Nowadays, the scholars are saying that there's more than one woman in fact, in the Gospels, not all of them are the Mary Magdalene, but even the woman, there's that parable of the woman taken in, the woman taken in adultery, was caught in adultery.
And then Christ came and defended her and said, let the one who is without sin throw the first stone. And William Blake did a beautiful painting of this incident, you know, where Christ is actually defending the woman taken in adultery, or we could say this is Mary Magdalene.
Sometimes she calls this woman actually Mary Magdalene in her talks, because mother talks about this. And she says, there's no relationship whatsoever between Christ and Mary Magdalene. Mother's explained this so many times.
But Blake gave such a pure painting of Mary Magdalene, in which she describes her, just like mother describes, because mother described Mary Magdalene as someone that Christ removed all the sins from her, removed everything, and she was just absolutely pure and beautiful.
That's the state in which she left her, of course, with these powers. But that's just a disciple. It's an absolutely pure relationship.
There's another painting that William Blake did of Mary Magdalene again, which is Christ interceding on behalf of Mary Magdalene. This is one of the most beautiful paintings Blake did.
God is sitting in judgment, you know, and then we have Christ in the middle defending Mary Magdalene again and then Magdalene is there like a great devotee of God, bowing down, you know.
Everybody says this is one of the most beautiful paintings of William Blake that he made of Mary Magdalene. And it really describes Sahaja Yoga.
Everything mother says, you know, you can see sometimes a reflection on his paintings, because he was such a great prophet of Sahaja.
But there are other things she told me about William Blake. I don't know why, but partly because I was living at Shasham Road, and Shasham Road is such an important place for William Blake. He prophesied about Shasham Road.
Also before coming to Sahaja already, I was very interested in William Blake for the last two years before coming to Sahaja.
And I felt at the time William Blake helped me a lot in my seeking when I found him.
Same time I also found the photo of Shri Mataji, not mother in person, at least I found the photo of Shri Mataji for two years before meeting mother.
So I had the photo, I had William Blake, and this was helping me a lot. So I had a certain strong feeling about William Blake, and wrote a little something about William Blake once or twice and mother said she liked that.
So it's all this together, all these circumstances put together may justify or explain why mother asked me to write about William Blake. And I was someone who felt very unprepared for that.
Really very unprepared, not able to do it easily, but gradually mother gave that power somehow.
And there was there was some great miracle, we discovered the location of the grave of William Blake with mother's help.
And so it all started that we had to write about that. In order to be able to mark the location of Blake's grave, this is something mother had said that needed to be done, you know, the grave of William Blake was not properly respected.
So it was it was necessary to do something nice for the grave of William Blake and I don't know we were so lucky.
It happened to us we were able to rediscover that location and there was no way out. Now we really have to write about William Blake, in order to write a study about this, the location of William Blake to help create a certain interest about it.
And we ended up going to BBC, we were invited by BBC to give a program about the location of William, of the graves of William Blake and his wife.
So it took many years of mother, somehow supporting me and giving the confidence to be able to do this.
And, but mother taught me other things about William Blake. I remember one very important occasion and this is very easy to share with everybody.
Mother's house, I remember I was doing a little bit of painting of gilding something very simple. There was also a friend of yours visiting England, you know, he didn't live here.
And he was also doing a bit of gilding with me. Other people doing the jobs, you know, sometimes much bigger jobs, plastering or cement or drilling carpentry, big jobs, you know.
And so the message came, mother will now speak to all of you, so come to the sitting room, you know. So we went immediately.
We're doing a very easy job, not very dirty, we didn't have to change clothes or even wash our hands. So we went immediately and we sat there.
And mother said, we won't start until the others arrive, we'll wait for them, you know. So we're sitting in silence there in front of mother, mother was sitting down.
And what the bliss is to be there. And then the friend says, Mother, on your coffee table, that's a book of William Blake, isn't it? Can I look at it?
And mother said, of course you can, but I tell you what, good idea. I'm going to show you this book to everybody. Let's wait until the others arrive.
You know, they're coming soon. You know, they have changed clothes or washed their hands from other building jobs or big glass paint, maybe, God knows.
And gradually they were coming one by one. And mother is looking at the book of William Blake, the paintings.
And every time mother looked at the painting, her face changed, transformed, and she was just doing sounds like, wow, wow, wow, fantastic, incredible, amazing.
And she kept going through the paintings of William Blake, page by page. And every time, sometimes mother put the eyes very close to the painting, at the time it was very far away.
But all the time she was saying, what's wonderful, really wonderful, wow, wow, incredible.
And then at last everybody arrived and then mother started showing the book to us.
And when she turned, she would look at the painting and she would show it to us.
And the moment she showed it to us, it was like a big wave of vibrations was coming to us. Really, really big wave.
A bit like when that box of shoes of mother was open. Tremendous, incredible.
It was putting us in meditation. Just the vibrations coming from mother's book. Of course, mother is holding the book in her hands. Mother looked into it.
So now the effect is so powerful. Automatically we all said, as soon as we saw the painting ourselves, wow, wow, wow, wow, amazing, incredible.
The waves of vibrations, we could feel it. And mother was saying, yes, yes, just enjoy the vibrations, enjoy the vibrations.
And then having shown the painting, she would show us, can you see here the chakras? You know, see, these are the chakras. Oh, yes, yes, you can see it, mother.
Can you see the hands above the sastrata? Oh, yes, yes. Look at this painting, the other painting, next painting.
Can you see this? The hands feeling the vibrations, see? It's about Sahaja Yoga.
Can you see the sastrata chakra in this painting? Or look at the Agni chakra in this painting.
The things mother could see, you know, mother could see the whole thing about Sahaja Yoga in each and every painting.
There was not a single painting that did not have such incredible elements about Sahaja Yoga there.
So they were very powerful. All we had to do was to enjoy the vibrations. We didn't have to have tremendous scholarly knowledge of these paintings and understand everything like the scholars do.
All we had to do was feel the vibrations. What a deep experience, tremendous vibrations.
And by the end of the book, even before mother told us what are the chakras or there's an element of Sahaja, we're telling mother, all of us, oh look, mother, I can see the three channels there.
Oh, yes, yes, the three channels, yes. The chakras there or the person feeling vibrations with their hands here or hands there or big auras, you know.
And mother showed tremendous appreciation for the paintings of Christ done by Blake. Mother was very, very appreciative of those paintings that William Blake made of Christ.
And another thing was the paintings of the version of the Madonna and Child, the Virgin Mary with the baby Jesus. Mother liked those paintings a lot also that Blake did.
Blake did a few of those that are amazing really. And it's hard to find a person more enthusiastic about Blake than Srimantaji.
She has such tremendous love for William Blake and William Blake suffered so much when he came on this earth.
And mother says sometimes on her talks, you can hear that mother says that she cries, you know, when she's reading about William Blake or seeing his paintings, sometimes she cries because how much she suffered in that lifetime.
You have here talking to people who couldn't understand anything, but it came to pave the way for Sahaja Yoga as a prophet of Sahaja Yoga, as a prophet of Srimantaji.
So what an important thing it is. Christ had many prophets too, you know, and mother had many prophets too, not just William Blake, but William Blake is one of those prophets that came and did a lot, a lot of work for mother for Sahaja Yoga, as a prophet of Sahaja Yoga.
And mother pays him such tremendous respect and love. It's even Christ sometimes looking at these paintings or looking at this poetry.
It will not find someone who loves Blake more than mother really.
As if he's a child of mother. In fact, he is a child of mother. There's no doubt about it.
On another occasion, because these are stories I did not
manage to write down and send to Linda, I sent a few stories that mother told me about Blake, but not those. And this one, one day mother took us to the
gallery to see the paintings of William Blake. And it was incredible to see mother there, because mother saw each and every painting very carefully.
She even read the curator notes on the wall because sometimes there's a little explanation about the painting, sometimes not, but usually there is something.
Mother read those notes very carefully. She studied each and every painting carefully, but she did something extra. She put her hands towards the painting to see, to check the vibrations.
This is a bit strange because this is in public. There's many people there in the museum. And mother is actually putting her hands towards the painting to feel the vibrations.
And she told us the same. Can you check the vibrations of this painting? Isn't it amazing what tremendous vibrations. In fact, the thing mother said the most that day is tremendous vibrations, tremendous vibrations.
Can you feel the vibrations of this painting of William Blake? Check the vibrations. Can you feel the vibrations? Tremendous vibrations. So when people ask me, what is the essence of what mother told you about William Blake?
I believe this is the essence, you know, tremendous vibrations on the paintings. Check the vibrations, enjoy the vibrations and feel the vibrations of those paintings.
To me, this is the essence of what mother told me about William Blake.
Another thing mother did at that museum was also quite interesting. At the very end of the exhibition, there was a cabinet with some very, very tiny engravings that William Blake made.
And these are called the Virgil engravings, they're called. And we look at them and they don't mean anything. They're very tiny, black and white.
And because they're inside the glass cabinet at the bottom of that glass cabinet, they're very hard to see. But she was putting a face right against the glass of the cabinet to see those illustrations.
And mother saw each and every illustration of those tiny little ones, of the Virgil illustrations. There are even some great Blake scholars who absolutely admire Blake and like everything about Blake.
They dedicate their lives to Blake, some scholars. And when it comes to these Virgil illustrations, some of them have said, oh, these illustrations, the Virgil ones, they're a bit overrated, you know.
But not for mother, they're not overrated at all. Mother liked them all, she saw each and every one. And she kept telling us, check the vibrations of these engravings, these little tiny ones. Check these vibrations, these are amazing.
These are extraordinary. Luckily for us nowadays, some modern scholars have shown much more appreciation about these Virgil illustrations than some other earlier scholars have.
And in fact, nowadays they've established that this was Blake's most influential work of his lifetime. There was no other work Blake did that influenced so many painters to follow that style.
So Blake had a, it was a group of disciples, like they call themselves, like they were just like disciples of William Blake, they were painters also.
And they had such admiration for William Blake and for them, for that group of people, there was nothing Blake ever painted or engraved so great like these Virgil illustrations.
So this is a type of knowledge that is only for Shri Mataji or great, great experts. And those group of people who call themselves the ancients, they understood something.
And Mother proved them right by saying, this is absolutely extraordinary. And in fact, this inspired me to have another look at these illustrations one day.
And once I had a chance to read the poem that the illustrations are illustrating, actually it's a poem written by, very nicely written by an English poet, translated from Latin to English.
This is what Blake is illustrating. And you can see this is the whole poem is about Sahaja Yoga really, especially in the way that William Blake illustrated this, the whole story is about Sahaja Yoga.
And as always, you know, Blake is a Sahaja. Mother appreciates everything it does because it is actually about Sahaja Yoga.
And it's quite easy for us to also do the same, go into meditation, enjoy those vibrations and benefit as much as possible from that.
And then one day, when new people ask us, you know, what is this William Blake? You know, why is this so important? Where does it say that he is a prophet of Sahaja Yoga?
Sometimes, you know, new people will ask us that at the public program, you know, it happened to me once, you know, a new person, he knew a bit about William Blake, or quite a lot in fact.
And they said, what is it in William Blake, it says that he wrote that he prophesied about Sahaja Yoga, you know, it's a bit embarrassing if you are not able to explain this to a new person even, because if they know Blake and Blake is so famous, they will ask, where is it, you know,
where is that prophecy that William Blake gave about Sahaja Yoga, where is it written? In fact, actually, dance is so simple, it's the easiest one to find.
Because of everything Blake wrote, the most famous thing he wrote is the hymn called Jerusalem and did those feet in ancient times.
This is a very famous poem in four stanzas that Blake wrote. And at the end of this poem, there's a line of text where Blake wrote, would to God that all the Lord's people were prophets.
So this is where William Blake prophesied that Sahaja Yogis would become prophets too, and with powers to make other prophets, then people have a tendency to ask, but where is it that Ashpek's mother said of with powers to make other prophets, because this is not written literally.
Yes, this is the truth. It's not written literally, but that's the actual meaning if you do the correct interpretation, because when Blake wrote, would to God that all the Lord's people were prophets, he also put the Bible quote is actually numbers, the book of numbers in the Bible in the Old Testament, and the verse is verse 29.
So, sorry, chapter 11, sorry, chapter 11 of the book of numbers, and verse 29. So, if you care to go and read the book of numbers in the Bible in the Old Testament, in chapter 11, what do you have?
You have a situation where Moses, he feels he cannot handle being the leader of all these people in the desert because they're complaining, they're mourning, they're groaning, they're complaining.
And there was an incident, they started asking for better food and more food, and now they want to eat meat in the desert.
And Moses got so upset that he went to God and said, I don't know if I can manage this on my own, if I had at least one more prophet to help me out here.
And in the book of numbers, God gives an answer. I will not give you just one more prophet or three or seven. I will give you 70 extra prophets if you need.
So, select the best 70 people that you admire, appreciate, you know, the best elders, the most sensible people, bring them to the tent of the tabernacle, or now depending on translation of the Bible, you read the tent of meeting or bring them to the tabernacle.
And then you put the spirit that is in you and you put the spirit into them, and then they shall prophesy and they will all become prophets.
So this is a situation of collective self-realization.
This is about Sahaj Yoga. This is what Sahaj Yogis, even we Sahaj Yogis can do. We can also give self-realization or mass. We can take that spirit that is in us and pass it on to another person like Moses did on that occasion because he needed 70 extra prophets.
And Moses did it and mother is telling us the truth. We can do the same. So we are also, William Blake prophesied that this would happen in England in Jerusalem because this quote that William Blake gave us comes immediately after a big poem that he wrote that hymn, which is about, that hymn Jerusalem is about building Jerusalem in England.
This is about buildings establishing Sahaj Yogi in England. And how do you do that? You do that by giving self-realization or mass, just like Moses did on that occasion.
So Blake gave us the actual very precise quote of book of Numbers chapter 11 verse 29, because there was a little incident. William Blake had a disciple called Joshua.
And Joshua came to report to Moses, look, out of those 70 people, two of them never came to the tent to receive the spirit, you know. So, but they have started to prophesy as well now.
So we must stop them. That's what Joshua, the disciple of Moses is telling Moses, why don't you stop them? Because they know they did not appear in the tent at the right time to receive that.
And yet they just quoted somehow and they started to prophesy. And then Moses replies to Joshua, are you jealous on my behalf or what? You know, let them also become prophets.
Wood to God that all the Lord's people become prophets. So that's how this incident came about.
And that's the whole total interpretation when you put the poem of that hymn Jerusalem, together with this quote, together with this episode of from chapter 11 of book of Numbers, when Moses, you know, protests to Joshua, are you what?
Are you jealous on my behalf or what? Moses doesn't want to be the only prophet. Moses wants more prophets. And he's even saying wood to God that all the Lord's people became prophets.
And this is according to mother, where William Blake wrote that such yogis with the powers to become prophets and do, sorry, would become prophets as prophesied by William Blake.
And they would have powers to make other prophets, other prophets too. So it's all there in writing. It is so very easy to find.
If any person, new person asks us, where is it that Blake wrote that? It's very easy to find. And she said to us in a talk, so she said it more than once.
What does it mean to be a prophet after all? In Sahaja Yoga, what does it mean to be a prophet? And then she answered the question.
It's very simple. A prophet means a person who can feel the power of the all-pervading power of God in his hands.
If you can feel the all-pervading power of God in your hands, then you are a prophet. That's what it means to be a prophet in Sahaja Yoga.
And thanks to Shri Mataji who gave us realization, we have all felt that power in our hands and above our heads.
And we have all given realization to the people on mass also sometimes at public programs.
So it is true. We have all become prophets as prophesied by William Blake.
And at least according to the real meaning of the word prophet, because even William Blake explained when people asked him what is a prophet.
He said that prophet is not a person who foresees the future. There's nothing to do with that.
In fact, Blake says that there are no prophets in the modern sense of the word, because even the old prophets were not able to foresee the future totally yet.
At least most of the times they didn't. They didn't know the future. They could not get it right.
Also the future. That's up to God. It's not about foreseeing the future. It's something else.
And Blake explains this. Sometimes it is about feeling the truth in your heart and expressing it to express the truth that is in your heart.
That is more related to being a prophet than to foresee the future. It's not about seeing the future.
But mother gives a very special definition of a prophet. That's the best one for us.
We became prophets the moment we are able to feel the all pervading power of God in our hands, which we all do thanks to mother.
We can feel it now coming from mother's feet, coming from mother's shoes, coming from mother's photos, coming from Shrimataji, coming even from the paintings of William Blake.
We can even feel the vibrations coming from the poems of William Blake, in fact. So we are spoiled for choice.
We can feel the vibrations coming from all the deities, from the swine boos, from everything.
So mother has proved this so well that there's just no room for doubt anymore.
We have all achieved that state and we can share it with new people.
I think that's more or less the things I wanted to share for today. And I apologize if it's not very clear.
And thank you for your time and patience.
Shrimataji.